
From groups.yahoo.com/group/80sBBS/message/3352


Hullo.

I found this group late last night while on my way to something else. Actually, found Jason Scott's documentary site first and followed his link over. It's really cool to see that the 80's BBS community is still kicking those days around, however I'm not finding any lists on here that include people who ran or remember CNet BBS for C=64.

Now THAT can't be right! We had hundreds of customers from all over the world, but mostly in the US, and to this day I have yet to find a message threading model anywhere on the internet that I like using better than the simple Post/Response stream method we pioneered.

For the record, CNet v1-10 were written entirely by Ken Pletzer (with some collaboration on v1). I took over and built v11.0 when Ken ported the system over to the Commodore 128 and eventually to Amiga. My version 11.0 was 80% Ken's code still with a lot of my ideas added in. 11.0 turned out to be incompatible with a lot of the hardware add-on's and not universally stable on the 3 different C-64 motherboard revisions (I had a lot to learn at that point) so we eventually recalled 11.0 and replaced it with the stable v11.1a, which was closer to 70% Ken's and 30% mine.

V11.1a was successful, but another programmer approached Ken with some fresh ideas for a version 12, and he agreed to let that individual collaborate with me. Well, at that time in my life I was not into collaboration, so I bowed out, keeping my source code and my development notes to myself. CNet v12, therefore, was almost entirely the work of Ken Pletzer and Don Gladden. Don used Ken's ML code from v10 rather than my 11.1a ML, which I think was a step backward and a mistake.

I don't know what happened between Don and Ken, but Ken asked me if I would be interested in creating a v13, and Don Gladden took his ideas and released Image BBS for C=64. I never looked at Image, but it is rumored that its first release used Ken's ML without his permission. In any event, by the time Image hit v2 it featured its own ML file.

I agreed to go back to CNet v11.1a and continue on the development lines I had been following, mainly because v12 was based on the buggy and outmoded v10 ML code and a lame BASIC overlay model that I had already left behind. Over the next year, I entirely rewrote Ken's original code and created a new BASIC and ML overlay model, which eventually became CNet BBS v11.6. Yes, we purposely marketed the upgrade to v12 as v11.6. Our marketing slogan (and we had T-Shirts made) was a math formula stating 11.6 is greater than 12 (11.6 > 12).

With CNet 11.6, the system became almost entirely my creation, about 85% mine and 15% Ken's. Where Ken had built the v10 ML using an ML monitor, one byte at a time (ouch!!) I had created an assembly language authoring system on my Amiga computer, which was very sweet! Using that, I converted the old BASIC text editor to ML and introduced my "Opus" editor, which freed up a bunch more space for sysops to create BASIC overlay games for their users. That was part of CNet's appeal: we had a developer's manual that allowed sysops with a modicum of BASIC v2 programming knowledge to build their own games for their users. My ML featured a structured kernal call table that remained the same through subsequent revisions. There were no major revisions, just incremental updates to do things like enable use of memory expander cartridges.

Somewhere along that line, I started to grow out of my stubborn resistance to collaboration and began working with a gifted group of BBS enthusiasts and programming gurus and we stared to envision a v13 that would have been really incredible. We planned to make it mandatory to use a 512K memory expander and I created new rules for writing ML so that all modules would be relocatable in memory (taking a page from the Amiga). I designed a functional object model for the v13 ML that had only the set of functions in RAM that were needed at any given moment in the form of a Module Stack. In that way, using the RAM expander, we had a virtual memory system for the C-64 that opened up new worlds. I also had in mind an infinitely variable gaming system based around a database model, and yes, that means that v13 would have been built around a database rather than collections of text files as before.

Would have been... sad to say, v13 was never released. Some of its most exciting features actually made it to testing. For example, we had the v13 Virtual Machine function actually WORKING. It made the C-64 work a little like a Windows Remote Desktop of today. Only a few people ever saw this, and it either totally blew their minds or they thought we were pulling some kind of trick and it was fake. It was NOT fake. Here's how it worked: The sysop could call his v13 system from remote and entered SYS at the main prompt. After entering a special user name and password, he would see on his remote terminal screen the familiar C-64 startup screen and the BASIC v2 prompt, and he would actually be able to load, write, and save BASIC programs on the system from remote. To do this we used a relatively conventional mainframe technique of time slicing and memory/pointer swapping hooked into the IRQs with normal screen/keyboard I/O rerouted through the modem via a VT emulator. We became convinced that (in theory) a Commodore 64 would be able to handle two modems and support two simultaneous callers with their own separate sessions using this technique (although splitting the NMI's was a problem never totally addressed). We considered a theoretical design where 10 C=64 computers could be hooked up together to operate in tandem with a user port communication chain to create an inexpensive true multi-line BBS based on CNet v13, and I believe it WOULD have worked, only we all moved on to Amigas and we never tried.

Anyway... I hope that SOMEBODY out there has an interest in all of this ancient history. The POINT is that we managed to build a serious BBS on a game machine and eventually a lot of CNet 64 sysops started fooling users into thinking they were using IBM boxes. That was possible because 11.6 featured an on-the-fly text reformatting feature that would take messages typed in 40 columns and present them to callers using wider screens in 80 columns. People used to call me and say that some users would refuse to believe that their BBS was running on a C-64.

Jim Selleck
